I have two chapters, by the way, in this new book, titled, in fact, Continuum 1.
Continuum 2 will be the future.
This is a bachelor's question, but...
Are you listening to my talk this afternoon?
That's really the occasion that I will not bore you with my late afternoon thoughts on this subject.
But everybody who is concerned with
The book is artifact.
It's necessarily also concerned with the book as intellectual construct.
Because no matter what you collect, no matter what you're interested in, you're going to want new books on the subject.
You're going to want new information.
What are you going to do?
Stop using the telephone book because it's in electronic form?
That's absurd.
You have to get information where you can find it, and usually you're just grateful that you can get it in any form.
You have no choice in the matter if the only copy of what you need within 1,500 miles is a microphone.
self-indulgent beyond permission as a scholar to concern yourself beyond a certain extent with the package that the information comes in.
Now, the package you're studying is a different question.
I don't want to study watermarks under glass, but anybody who's active in any intellectual pursuit is right up there at the library terminal,
consulting the, quote, card catalog, unquote, because the card catalog died.
Do you lament its passing?
Not a bit.
I sit in my terminal, as you sit in your terminal, and I have nothing better to do.
I access 150 catalogs of the libraries I like best.
And, well, in my day, I'm doing an exhibition
this summer.
This is the 25th anniversary of the founding of the Book Arts Press.
And the exhibition is called the teaching resources of the Book Arts Press.
I'll come to that.
Well, great.
It will be up during the
four weeks of our book school and a long ways before and after.
That's this summer?
Right, it'll be up from the beginning of June until the middle of September.
Somebody send me a notice, do you think?
I noticed somebody will kindly say, if you'll kindly give me a card to remind me of that.
Oh, sure.
And one of the things I need
for the exhibition is two copies of the Dover Dory Bible Gallery.
Two copies because I have a million copies of the original, but I'm taking
I sat on the road to give a workshop that helped me to the Utah Library Association Rare Book Group in May.
Is that in Salt Lake City?
Yes.
They take my call.
For reasons that I'll explain in a minute, I'm teaching process identification to 80 people.
And I'm doing it with real examples, which means taking real prints out of books or wherever they come from, damaged copies, and encapsulating them in mylar, not all the way around, but just as if it were a transparent file holder.
Just take a big piece of polyester and fold it once.
The static electricity holds whatever it is inside beautifully, and you can see it.
But you can lift up and feel the texture if you want to without further ado.
So I've been carrying up sets of 40 examples of wood cut, wood engraving, steel engraving, chalk manner lithograph, transfer lithograph, polytype, really half-term aquitin photography are the 19th century processes.
And each person in the workshop is going to have a collection of about 30 credits, each two people.
And what are these people studying?
They are librarians and book salaries and such who want to know the difference between one print and another.
For personal pleasure, because conservators and librarians ought to know what's going to happen to something when they put it under water.
some indication of the value, intellectually and financially, in various processes at various times.
But one of my factors is wood engravings, in fact they're electrotypes, of wood engravings from the Dori Bible.
But I want everybody to have not only an original print, I want them to have a photolithographic reproduction of it.
And since Dover prints on both sides, I need two copies so I can rip them off.
So at 4 o'clock this morning, I called up Amazon.com.
Those copies will be in Charlottesville waiting for me on Monday.
Now, I lived in New York for 29 years.
If I wanted the Dover, I could go down to Varick Street and get one.
Or stop off at any of 50 bookstores along the way.
But what do you do in Charlottesville?
Go to a bookstore and order it, no problem.
But I can do that too, and I did.
So there's the continuum.
I needed the book.
I needed it for purposes having only to do with the identification of 19th century prints.
These are the wonderful things that we have from computers.
I've been to Cornell, for instance, for this
They're digitizing books, indeed they are, and the Redoubtable Lamb.
And not only are they digitizing books, but they are a mandate from their Board of Trustees to reduce their collection on campus from 6.8 million to 6 million by the year 2000.
Obviously, their agenda includes the print book.
We have still a lot of books.
That does not mean getting rid of 800,000 books.
It means getting rid of twice that many because of normal accessions coming in.
That's right.
And then, while I was there, just to go into that ultimus,
Maybe they take me up, but I wish the heck I had my camera with you, but they are scanning things.
They're scanning archives.
They're scanning the letter books of those in Cornell.
Just as so happens while I'm there.
Now, they have made a determination that only the content matters, because these are not his letters.
They're the letters that is out calling letters written by some secretary.
So they're scanning them.
And then the originals are being disclosed on.
Now, how do you respond to something like that?
Is that something that is unique?
It's not clear.
Two ways.
One the opposite of the other.
No reason why you wouldn't know, but you just might know that the Lucas Press has an annual Valentine in the shape of the big posters.
Well, one year it was, change is neither merciful nor just.
That's what Cornell's letters book, which I presume, looks like seven volumes, but they're copies made under pressure of the originals on tissue.
And the paper wasn't very good when it was made.
So in 150 years, 150 years has not helped.
Choose one.
Don't make surrogates of the originals and watch themselves distraught.
Or two.
make surrogates of the originals and throw away the originals.
And don't talk to me about three, both, because it's too expensive.
And they will tell you the process of making the copy
It really requires dilating the volume so they can get a good copy.
My impression when I went up to this room, I saw a lot of old, basically, just fillet.
It's so people, we say what we can.
But if you can't walk, how?
So this is a practical necessity that you do have to script your books and don't have to.
Well, the faculty speaking, probably, if you had, you can tell yourself that if you have real stamina, you just go out and raise the money and do both.
But on the break, you've got
6,799,000 other books, many hundreds of thousands of which
are clamoring for attention.
Are you familiar with a phrase called phased deterioration?
Not a bit of phased deterioration.
I've certainly heard of phased conservation.
Phased deterioration means that's a fact that has been formalized.
And John Cole heard of it at the Library of Congress.
This is another phrase I picked up before now.
Basically, the decision has been made.
I'm not passing any judgment at all.
I'm not reporting.
We're talking about book culture and the way things are going.
This is what I'm looking at.
Certain books have made the determination that certain books will not take any heroic efforts to rely on them.
And so they're going to make them as comfortable as they can, give them a little bit of reasonable.
But there is a point at which, of course, you can't intervene.
That's why it's called phase deterioration.
I mean, you do pass a certain point, I guess, where...
reclaiming the book, or restoring it, or deacidifying it, is not only relatively expensive, but actually practically impossible.
So that happens, obviously.
No, sure.
This is great.
Your realism quotient has to be in working order here, if you're going to get through the day in the Westside Carmel or any other large library.
The New York Public for years has been taking in new pamphlets and filming them and throwing them away on the spot, brand new stuff.
Yes.
And they're the only place in the country that's got them.
That's got a pamphlet.
It's got the information they contain.
They are the only place that knows that it has them, which is the same thing.
And they throw away the originals, maybe because they have no place to store them.
They throw away the originals because they don't need them.
Because they captured the intellectual context.
Too bad for the writing historians.
Do you have an attitude?
Are you riding that?
We reach a point, obviously, where we can't keep everything.
We reach that point 20 centuries ago.
The world is for the living.
Most people aren't terribly interested in the past.
I say this afternoon we have an obligation.
We cannot use up the past.
We have to.
How do you mean?
What do you mean by that?
We cannot provide the future and the past.
We cannot use up all the natural, physical, and mental resources that have been heard.
Too bad for the kids.
There were 200 copies of the reading book that were printed, there were 50 copies that survived.
It was pretty good for 500 years, but we can't use them all.
It's irresponsible of us as a civilization not to do our part to see that those books get carried on in an unsurrogated format.
to posterity because it's one of the great monuments of Western culture.
But this doesn't mean that I'm going to vote for the salvation of every edition of Little Women.
I already need every edition of every Bible.
I mean, this is a huge example of Gutenberg.
You know, we say it, any copy of a great many editions of the Bible.
Now, again, one hopes that we pass on to our successors enough so that they get a sense of the past and an honest one.
And in questionable areas, we should be as generous as possible.
but historically practically all the conservation money has gone to the top of the market not the bottom you don't have to worry by the end of the 18th century nobody was throwing away portfolios of shakespeare indeed so lovingly were they being considered
Yet Donald Farron, who cataloged the Folger 79 for his folios last year at NDH grant, says that there is not a single untampered wood copy.
Not one.
Every single one of them is the Folger.
At the Folger?
Yep.
By whom do we have any?
By five generations of conservatories and book finders and booksellers.
In what respect?
Improved, perfected.
It's a good copy and it was owned by Garrick.
But the frontispiece is torn.
Let's replace it from a better copy.
The frontispiece title page is torn.
And now one of them is metamedic.
Now he's doing the second and third and fourth folios.
He's almost through the seconds and he says he hasn't gone to Nuntampu second yet either.
Well, as I was saying, that's where all the money goes.
But Worcester, Massachusetts pamphlets of the 1840s, you can be pretty sure, are not porgeries, are not tampered with, and are not preserved.
There are local interests.
There weren't that many produced.
Thank you very much.
There is now a lifted range of interest, and we just hope that three or four societies' operations will keep up with that.
If one is discovered in...
Charlottesville, Virginia, on a subject of interest only to those living in Worcester in the 1840s.
What do you think its chance of survival is?
We're going to throw it away.
If we have stamina, and if we're little enough, we do, then we might do something better than that.
I recently was in touch with Robert Buckeye, who's the Wilbur librarian at Middlebury.
I expressed a terrible copy of a piece of pastoral theology of no interest to us in the bad binding of 1825.
And I wrote him essentially a joke message saying, you know, it's 1825, it was published in Middlebury, your mom, and I cannot believe that you don't have 25 copies of it.
But I'm going to throw it away if you don't want it.
Do you want it?
He wrote that.
He said they'd love to have it.
They have the second edition, 1827, but they don't have the first edition, 1821.
So, the book has gone home to a place where it will be looked after.
Very appropriate.
But it is not realistic to ask me, Book Arts Press, a teaching laboratory, to put this book in with a lot of other books.
to look after literary 1825 printing i will not take that responsibility i will just because i know a lot of people it's very efficient for me to be in touch with the railroad library because i'd like you to know them by email and i'd like you to know their address to send a message off saying do you want something
But I don't know if you can expect how many libraries to do this.
There's something that everybody has to remember.
They're book school.
Church at Columbia.
But it had a problem.
I was prepared to do everything necessary to make your big school good, but I was not willing to take on the problems of the Upper West Side.
You just can't do everything all the time.
Libraries are the trouble they're in.
For a simple reason, I think.
There has to be a sharing between two elements, responsibility and authority.
If somebody is to be responsible for something, then they have to have authority over it.
You can't have it both ways.
You can't tell libraries you're responsible for preserving all this stuff without giving them
the means to do so, and to tell them that they must go raise the means is like telling me to clean up the West Side so I can run their book school.
It's too much responsibility.
It's thrown at an institution that doesn't have the authority to raise that kind of money anymore.
I'm not having the authority to clean up the Upper West Side.
Now you said a lot of trouble that they're in.
I think you like to cover them.
What do you mean by that?
The trouble they've always been in.
Too many books, not enough money.
Do you know about libraries in general?
Not books, libraries specifically.
I'm talking about any research library that has an obligation to an area.
Well, a public library is a convenience operation.
Here's two of them.
Their problems are probably more similar to those of Barnes & Noble than they are to New York public.
You don't mind my jumping around with that.
The reputations of institutions are still
Why be an institution?
Huh?
Because this is likely to change.
Why be an institution?
over the past 25 years, it's good in everything except their library.
It doesn't work that way.
You've got a good faculty, you've got a good campus, you've got a good endowment, you've got a good library.
They all come together.
You can't say you're going to have a good faculty with a bad library.
You can't say you're going to have a good library with a bad faculty.
They try to do everything at once.
You can't specialize that much in academia.
They're encyclopedic operations.
You can't decide if you can have a three-legged table.
You can't have a four-legged table.
You've got to put your resources at good students, good faculty, good physical resources.
That means to support it all.
For example, in nine years, everyone would acknowledge that our university is one of the great American universities.
And yet in nine years, right-hand Gregorian increased the holdings from $2 million to $3 million.
Only he must have had it.
How big did anybody else grow?
And then all the other institutions?
I think all the other leagues are already larger than one.
But what was the percentage of interest throughout the country?
I bet it wasn't anything close enough.
Yeah, that's a 30%.
And I bet Brown lied, too.
Well, why would they lie?
I mean, just let me talk you theoretically now.
Why would they want to put out an important ticket?
Why would it be important to go to a piece of art?
Maybe that goes back to my initial question.
It's certainly still largely the case that Mars better than Mars.
Hold on.
It's not two to three million.
It's interesting.
It's two to three million watts.
In England, there is some competitive lying.
because the granting agencies decided that they would accept giving money to the great research libraries based on the number of holdings they had.
When Oxford Learned and Cambridge was counting individual slip sheet ballots, they said, all right, you sons of bitches.
They began counting their cigar labels individually in the John Johnson collection.
Come on.
Anybody can play this now.
But basically, I can give you a person to talk to about this who does those statistics.
His name is Kendon Stubbs.
Kenton, K-E-N-B-O-N, S-T-U-B-B-S, he's associate librarian, associate director that is, at UVA, a very short name.
He's quiet, don't let it be.
He's associate director.
Did I send you a book on his first guest book?
Maybe we should talk about what the Book Arts Press is, how to have that.
You've got to take care of the function in this field without that book.
It's called Kennedy's Book Arts Press address book.
It's a list of about 25, maybe 3,000 names of people who are active in the book world.
That's what I said.
And you get it.
by being a friend of the book like France, which costs you $30 a year.
My check will be in the mail.
And you get many other things besides.
Well, it's like joining the Friends of the Harvard College Library.
That's the best thing you've ever had.
Oh, isn't it?
Absolutely.
Isn't that amazing?
It's a miracle.
They do a wonderful job.
What I'm saying is that
And anybody mixed up in the preservation of the national patronage is either going to develop a sense of the macabre, or set the risks, because you're going to lose stuff all the time.
A friend of mine was in a play as an undergraduate as Moliere play, under-rehearsed,
and she and the rest of the cast were... They're dropping so many lines, and during performances, I finally said to my friend, Jane, what's it like up there when that happens?
She says, well, you think?
Too bad for the playwright.
And I think, finally, in the library, you think, well, too bad for posterity.
You know, save on the Charlottesville entrance,
The Middlebury infants are going to have to look after themselves.
I won't accept the responsibility for the world's class from then to now because I am not given the authority to do so.
And don't tell me I've got the responsibility when you won't give me the authority.
Don't tell me I've got to do it all.
I'm not Atlas.
I don't do it.
Now look.
That's your typical research library's attitude in spades.
They work hard eight, nine hours a day.
Then they go home.
And in an environment with very limited authority and very great responsibility, it isn't going to work very well.
We should be grateful that it works as well as it does.
And if Cornell decides that they've got this stamina
to digitize Ezra's letterbox.
That is just one example.
Sure.
Oh yeah, no, but look, they're doing something at least.
The things are going to self-destruct all by themselves without intervention anyway.
They, probably, most of them,
are stupefying irrelevance and wellness anyway.
So when they submit the decision has been made, they've got a committee that the only value there is context.
Oh, but even then?
Are they about beer or are they about Cornell?
Are they about beer or something about Ezra's other enterprises or are they about the university?
I think that there is letters in general.
Dear Mr. Smith, thank you for your invitation on your committee.
I regret the press of business that prevents me.
Well, all right, you're going to save that and throw away your Emily Dickinson letters?
Because you don't have the authority, which is to say you don't have the resources not to.
I've also been to the Harvard Deposit Church.
This is going to be a wonderful chapter.
I wish I could explain just the various things that it involves.
Did you want an ice?
Yeah, no, why do it again?
The subs can tell you about that one as well, if you understand.
Tell me, by the way, I've got plenty of time, but I know you don't.
So tell me what about the book I express, okay?
And you must have some literature.
I'll send you some.
I thought I did, but I'll send you a full suite.
Okay.
The Book Arts Press is an institute that supports the study of the history of the book and related subjects.
It is an octopal incorporation chartered in the Commonwealth of Virginia.
A time that's fonder and pleasurable.
Twenty-five years ago this summer, apparently.
This thing founded up here, like anywhere.
In New York it had no separate existence.
It started out as a course in the Columbia Library School.
And I began acquiring stuff to support my teaching.
And that collection grew a little bit every year so that when I moved the Book Arts Plus equipment and supplies and book collections to Virginia in the summer of 92, I moved, and I'm sure you received for it, just over 21 tons worth of material.
So it grew a lot.
It was not easy to extricate it from Columbia.
I did not wish to have it fall into the hands of the state of Virginia.
So I set up a private corporation, and Columbia was willing to turn over the assets, which is to save the supplies and equipment of the Book Arts Press, through the Book Arts Press, with certain exceptions.
Those they would give up only to the University of Virginia, because they were afraid of liability problems and moving heavy presses.
And so they were given to the University, which then gave them to the Popeye's press.
that if an employee of one of the universities had been damaged during the move of the presses, then the University of Virginia would have been liable not to work on stress.
And given the difference in our resources, that was probably prudent on Columbia's part, although not fine.
because it was a very low risk, and in the event of unnecessary precaution.
But... The La Carte's press is...
I like to call it a collection of cottage industries.
It's a summer school, or a book school.
It's a publishing program.
We do videotapes, we do occasional publications.
It's a lecture year.
We've said thousands of speakers over the years, and in particular, assisted English
and putting together American lecture tours.
Including various tours by Ian Willison, John Dreyfus, James Mosley, Nicholas Pickwell, Christopher Clarkson, Bill Dane.
The Bookhouse Press is in Augusta.
What's unusual about a law?
Is it the principal support for the book that suggests other than that which the University of Virginia gives, which is the matter?
in the form of contributions to the Friends of the Bookhouse Press, and become a friend of the Bookhouse Press, in which there are 600, exactly as of this morning, exactly 600 members.
So I have the opportunity to read the 600 members?
That's right.
Well, it's down to about 630 because I just removed 29 people from the area as the nonpayment, so that's a pretty tight number.
6.29 is the largest you've ever done.
But this time here is always when it's the largest before it gets cut.
Because people have not paid attention to their second use notes.
But the facts of the book are expressed are largely working professionals in the field.
And that's what's unusual.
I don't have, in other words, large donors by now.
It's just people out there, paper and booksellers, paper, librarians, conservatories, binders, book collectors, who support me.
Either to the tune of $30 a year, or of the 600, 200 are close friends at Book Arts Press, $85 a year.
About 30 of them are best friends at Book Arts Press, $250 a year.
And I have several people who give me even louder contributions.
Now, when I was at Columbia, the Book Art Express was the teaching lab for a master's degree in library science with a specialty in rare books.
Which is no longer being taught here, right?
That is correct.
About two-thirds of those students wanted to be verbal librarians and about one-third wanted to be antiquarian booksellers.
And of the people that you know who went through the program, I'll just run a string of names and see which ones you recognize.
Karen Hepps and David Weitzel and David Farris and David Warrington at Harvard, Richard Neville and Sam Streit and Dennis Landis.
at Brown, Bell and Cortis, and Beaver Powell, who may not like you to know, at Yale.
Jeffrey Manser-Weiss at Sydney College, Hartford.
at AAS, Martin Antonetti, now Smith, Virginia Bartow, and Jennifer Lee, and John Graffay, and Miriam Mandelbaum, and Dan Love.
Ross's house name, it'll come in a minute.
At New York Public,
Claudia Funke and Jane Rogers of Columbia, John Goodwell and Gray Immel at Princeton, Dan Craister at Penn, Robert Jones, the new head at Illinois, Alex Schreier at Chicago, Peter Van Lingen at L.C.
And those are just the ones I think are at the top.
Jim Green is a library company, and I can do it by year.
It's a lot of people, but without a list.
Columbia, increasingly, research universities, increasingly, need to have alumni at large at all levels that are either pastors or prestigious.
Columbia doesn't get a beam from its PhDs in Greek.
that it lends prestige to the university to have a celebrated Greek department, and how much prestige they get from the graduates of their business school, that they get plenty of money, so that's okay.
But why do social work?
Why do librarianship?
Why do physical therapy?
There's no money in it.
There's no prestige in it.
They're just doing it as a service to humanity.
That's not good enough.
They don't do librarianship anymore.
They still do social work, but don't hold your breath.
They still do nursing, but don't hold your breath.
They're too expensive.
That kind of education is going to the states.
Because the states will have to support it.
But really, the library skills are disappearing.
Just the fancy ones.
Just what?
And at its height, there were 75 library skills.
There's still 55.
It's just the ones in the research universities that are under attack.
Are they still relevant in your view?
Yeah, sure.
Are books still relevant?
Sure.
Are they going to be in 50 years?
Not unless they change.
Are they going to change?
Sure, I could do a half a dozen campuses.
University of Michigan, Stanford.
They've opened brand new facilities and they're not even called libraries anymore.
They're called learning resources.
That comes and it goes.
It used to be called under papers, now there are more tissues.
They still deal with bodies.
They used to be called school librarians.
Now they're called media specialists or maybe they're not.
They would be called learning resource specialists.
But that tells you something.
they're not teaching them bibliography, but they're teaching them something about how to find information.
Bibliography is part of that.
The names change.
I don't think we have the luxury of too easily combining change and decay.
Change always looks like decline, decay, decrepity.
It always looks vicious, sinful, and awful.
As you get old, you're sick of change.
A hundred years ago, the library press is full of the difficulties of fiction.
Should public libraries waste their money in buying fiction, it's not good for the people.
The stuff is junk.
Eighty years ago, the big problem in children's literature was Oz books.
They were bad for children.
Many libraries refused to carry Oz books.
They weren't worthwhile.
They taught a kid nothing.
Fifty years ago, comic books.
You know, you brought them on.
Your mother probably didn't want you to have them either.
Now, look what's happened to the graphic novel.
I mean, is this decline or is it just change?
And I think we all need to be as far as we can to figure out what it is that we're saving.
As far as Israel, Israel's letter books are concerned, we're saving the content.
Because we can't.
And it's a miracle if we do that, don't we?
You have a pretty reasonable attitude.
Well, look, of course I do.
What's the alternative?
I want you to use this information with discretion, please, because, you know,
these people are very good friends of mine but look why do you go into librarianship you don't sit there choosing well i could be an explorer or it could be rocket science or it could be a librarian it doesn't work that way you're in a librarianship historically in this country because
If you're interested in a lot of things, you're curious.
That's why librarians are so much fun to be with.
They're genuinely interested in things.
They're not whiners, in my experience.
They do the best they can, which is often very good indeed.
They're knowledgeable, they work hard, they know a lot, but they want a job.
They're not easily confused with Henry Ford or Thomas Alba Edison.
They're not entrepreneurs and they don't want to be.
Many of them are being forced into roles that if they knew they were going to be forced into, then they would never have gone into the profession.
They're forced to raise money.
They're forced to superintend digitization projects.
They're forced to do large amounts of often quite difficult and tedious supervision.
They're forced to take on ever greater responsibility, usually without a commensurate increase in authority.
And a lot of them are wearing pink.
What we need
in a lot of these places is people who are a little bit more entrepreneurial in their attitude.
But if they had that kind of enterprise, that kind of entrepreneurial instinct, they wouldn't have gone into librarianship because entrepreneurs don't take on that kind of work.
Most of librarians in this country are public servants.
A typical librarian works for the state.
Whether it's the University of Michigan, or the city of New York, or something like it.
It's a municipal employee, state employee, federal employee.
The library's the exception, not the rule in this country.
The library's the great exception.
So you've got a lot of very nice and competent people who are suddenly all being asked to be Henry Ford.
Without the resources.
So sure they're involved.
But look, it's an ice bath.
It was easier, I think, for public libraries, when public libraries were universally believed to be a vehicle of municipal pride, which now they're not.
Look at San Francisco.
Despite all that, they built a brand new library.
They're just a great example of municipal pride.
Well, what would they have built if the old one hadn't had to fall down?
Because it's always getting off.
If things are going so well, why did they fire the librarian on open go?
I mean, it's not easy.
But if you look at the great research public library collections, Boston, Detroit, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia, San Francisco, Denver, New Orleans, public, terrible public.
Most of them are closed.
Detroit's closed, Denver's closed, Cleveland is living alone.
Boston's not very good, Philadelphia's closed.
It worked 100 years ago, libraries for the College of the People.
The libraries, public libraries, municipal libraries aren't the College of the People anymore.
It went a different way.
And we're still paying for that.
Really, in this generation's thought, didn't realize that everybody would go to college.
So they were providing public continuing education.
It could have gone that way.
It just didn't.
And now we're stuck with it.
We do the best we can.
But it ain't going to be easy.
in places like Detroit is another problem.
Another area, by the way, a chapter I'm doing, Roger suggested this, and it's basically a picking up on Barney Rosenthal's lecture, Malcolm Lecture at Columbia, and trying to locate as many of the surviving emigre booksellers are there, a little over the crowds for instance, to talk to herself.
Well, there are a number of them still around.
Talk to Barney about that.
I interviewed Barney last year.
I've interviewed Otto Bettman for this book.
I can see Otto in Florida.
I'll tell you, the evening that Barney gave that lecture at Columbia was an occasion.
There were 15 of them in the audience, and they were so old.
It was just, it was a moment, to tell you.
Was it?
Can you describe it a little bit?
Maybe you had to get a little bit past Barney.
I thought that he could do it better.
Well, maybe you could describe it as an experiment.
Well, I was... Because you proposed it, I didn't know.
Oh, yeah, sure.
But, detectives, I treasure his response.
Damn you, damn you, damn you.
He decided he wouldn't lecture in public anymore.
and he felt he could not refuse to lecture on this subject for Marianne, who he had known for more than 30 years at that point.
So he wouldn't have done it if it hadn't been that topic, I think.
He's speaking for me next summer.
Well, a while back he gave a talk for me, things about which I've changed my mind in 30 years in the book business.
my mind in 40 years and get business.
So he says they'll do that for me for middle school next summer.
In fact, the lecture itself, the front two rows were made up to a considerable extent of some very old people and their daughters or sons who dropped them.
Roush was still alive, he did not come.
His daughter was there.
He was already pretty shaky.
Saul Malkin himself, of course, had just died.
He had died here before.
Paul Henbacher was there.
Goldschmidt was there.
Marguerite, of course.
I did not really know that generation, of course, because
Back to the Book Arts Press.
The Book Arts Press runs a lecture series,
is unusual because it's really about the underlying bookings, not the only lecture series of any length.
It is.
There have been some exceptions, but not many in the series.
The ones I've published, they are on the underlying bookings.
The Ralkan Lecture this summer is Kathy Lieb on 100 Years of American Book Crisis Probes.
It's their centennial this year.
Is that going to be here?
Is that down there?
The Ralkan Lecture is always, oh yeah, it's been in Charlottesville since 92.
It was Bob Darnton in 92, Justin Schiller in 93, Anthony Roda in 94,
Christopher Dehamel in 95, Ken Rendell in 96, Kathy Deeb in 97, Paul Needham in 98.
Oh, all talking on bookplate subjects.
So it's one of our contributions to the history of the field in the 10th.
There's not much written about the bookplate.
You're surprised how much of it's in Malcolm's interest.
So we're a collection of cottage industries, as I say.
Well, at large, the biggest impact we make is the bookstool because it's big.
It's a little field.
It's big for a little field.
It's little.
We're not.
We're going to be easily confused.
We'll see you online.
But we had 300 people there last summer, and we've had 300 people there every summer since 1983, so that most of the people you're going to be taught to now have some sort of formal relationship with your book school, either as a student, or as a student.
Roger and Barney taught a course together.
Ruth Mortimer and John Lancaster taught a course together.
It's a long list at this point.
Well, you get one and you ask, and it emerges.
John and Ruth is a fairly obvious combination.
married to each other as they were.
I asked Roger to teach a course in acquisitions, and he thought it would be nice if Barney came in for a couple of days, so that's how that happened.
And yeah, there have been some interesting feelings.
I lose money on team-taught courses, so I don't
I'm not going to go out of my way to be imaginative on this, but they occur.
And sometimes it's the only way you can get it close together.
John Goodwell knows European papermaking history.
Timothy Barrett knows Oriental papermaking history.
In the way, he's got a pair of some Japanese and Western papermaking.
I'm just going to turn this on the other side.